# Casting Agency Backend

## Getting Started

### Installing Dependencies

#### Python 3.9

Follow instructions to install the latest version of python for your platform in the [python docs](https://docs.python.org/3/using/unix.html#getting-and-installing-the-latest-version-of-python)

#### Virtual Environment

We recommend working within a virtual environment whenever using Python for projects. This keeps your dependencies for each project separate and organized. Instructions for setting up a virtual environment for your platform can be found in the [python docs](https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/)

#### PIP Dependencies

Once you have your virtual environment setup and running, install dependencies by naviging to the `/backend` directory and running:

```bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

This will install all of the required packages we selected within the `requirements.txt` file.

##### Key Dependencies

- [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) is a lightweight backend microservices framework. Flask is required to handle requests and responses.

- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) and [Flask-SQLAlchemy](https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/) are libraries to handle the lightweight sqlite database. Since we want you to focus on auth, we handle the heavy lift for you in `./src/database/models.py`. We recommend skimming this code first so you know how to interface with the Drink model.

- [Flask-CORS](https://flask-cors.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#) is the extension we'll use to handle cross-origin requests from our frontend server.

## Database

### Migrations

Commands:
```bash
FLASK_APP=api.py FLASK_DEBUG=true flask db init # init migrations folder, this was already done

# Note: You need to have the DB up and running
# generate migrations changes based on changed models, finetune the autogenerated migrations
FLASK_APP=api.py FLASK_DEBUG=true flask db migrate 

FLASK_APP=api.py FLASK_DEBUG=true flask db upgrade # run the migration

FLASK_APP=api.py FLASK_DEBUG=true flask db downgrade # rollback the migration
```

### Set up for running Postgres locally

With Postgres running, create a `casting_agency` database:

```bash
createdb casting_agency
```

Populate the database using the `casting_agency.psql` file provided. From the `_docker_image/postgres/setup.sql` folder in terminal run:

```bash
psql casting_agency < casting_agency.psql
```

### Set up database as Docker 

Alternatively to having Postgres running locally, you can start up the Postgres as Docker container.

Note: For this you will need to download Docker Desktop for running dockers images locally from https://www.docker.com/.

To start Postgres in Docker with the DB automatically populated run the following commands from the root of the project:

```bash
cd _docker-image
docker compose up
```

To remove docker container run:

```bash
docker compose down
```

### Configure .env variables

As per `.envExample` file, create `.env` file and fill in all the necessary variables for the database connection.


## Running the server

From within the `./src` directory first ensure you are working using your created virtual environment.

Each time you open a new terminal session, run:

```bash
export FLASK_APP=api.py;
```

To run the server, execute:

```bash
flask run --reload
```

or without exporting the variable:

```bash
FLASK_APP=./src/api.py flask run --reload
```

The `--reload` flag will detect file changes and restart the server automatically.

## Authorization
 
### Setup Auth0

1. Create a new Auth0 Account
2. Select a unique tenant domain
3. Create a new, single page web application
4. Create a new API
   - in API Settings:
     - Enable RBAC
     - Enable Add Permissions in the Access Token
5. Create new API permissions:
   - `get:drinks`
   - `get:drinks-detail`
   - `post:drinks`
   - `patch:drinks`
   - `delete:drinks`
6. Create new roles for:
   - Barista
     - can `get:drinks-detail`
     - can `get:drinks`
   - Manager
     - can perform all actions
7. Test your endpoints with [Postman](https://getpostman.com).
   - Register 2 users - assign the Barista role to one and Manager role to the other.
   - Sign into each account and make note of the JWT.
   - Import the postman collection `./starter_code/backend/udacity-fsnd-udaspicelatte.postman_collection.json`
   - Right-clicking the collection folder for barista and manager, navigate to the authorization tab, and including the JWT in the token field (you should have noted these JWTs).
   - Run the collection and correct any errors.
   - Export the collection overwriting the one we've included so that we have your proper JWTs during review!

## Testing

To deploy the tests, run

- if the Postgres DB is running locally:

```bash
dropdb trivia_test
createdb trivia_test
psql trivia_test < trivia.psql
python test_flaskr.py
```

- if Postgres DB is running as Docker:

```bash
docker compose down # to remove the container and any stored data if needed
docker compose up # to start docker container with seeded data
python test_flaskr.py
```